There's a couple more things
I want to just talk about.
First off, practice makes perfect.
You kinda gotta know and use these for a
little bit and you'll discover new items.
I made this really stupid example here for
a quick second that is just like this
really nice little, look at that.
And I used v.0, so look how pretty
that is, I didn't design any of that.
And when you click it,
it does all that nice stuff.
We did this all today, went over here made
sure that you can't have a valid email.
And when you hit subscribe
it disables the button for
a little bit of time while
the the request is happening, and
then gives you that nice little air,
that's nice and pretty.
It feels pretty, it looks pretty.
And I did that all with v.0 plus
a little bit of htmx, so pretty easy.
We could do in between swaps as well as we
have these nice transition between scenes,
just didn't do any of that stuff.
And we're gonna go over a couple examples
from the book to kinda show more of
the engineering aspect of HTMX.
Okay, there's a lot more examples in here,
go check them out.
First off, current URL can be controlled
by HTMX, which is really great.
So as we make transitions through our app,
if you wish to update the URL,
you can do that.
You can choose how you want it.
You can say, hey, don't update the URL.
So when we do a body swap, you don't
want to update the URL, then hey,
don't update the URL, so
we can do all those kind of things.
So let's say we want to
create a contacts page.
So when you clicked on a contact
it actually went to a page with
all the information.
But we also wanted to be able
to delete from the page.
Our current delete endpoint
wouldn't work that way, right?
It will send down no contact or
no content, what would happen?
Well, the button would disappear.
You wouldn't know that
the contact has been deleted.
We just wouldn't have an experience there.
So what should happen?
Well, first we can create
a very simple delete button.
Which is a nice little indicator,
we can push the URL.
So when we do a change with the button,
it will actually save that change and
update our URL.
We can target the body if we want to, but
again, we're just sending down no content.
So it'd be kind of weird,
we just make the page go blank.
So what we can do is we can
actually do a couple things.
So first off we can always disable
the button during the request.
Here's a simple JavaScript function that I
have that you can just attach the window
called disableButton.
You pass any button that you create into
it, and it will automatically listen to
the request and disable it during
the lifetime of a request.
Pretty simple to make right?
Not only that, but how do we do the Delete
on the contacts page, how would that work?
Well, you have to understand a 303.
And so first, what you're probably
thinking is that if you were
to delete on a contact page,
you would press the delete button,
it would go to the server,
it would do a delete.
And if you're in a modern front-end world,
you'd need to tell your client,
your front end to do
a navigation to a separate page.
And make sure that the data is up to date
and rehydrate your data and make sure
that your local cache matches your server
in more of this kind of like HTMX world.
You do the standard which is to
actually do a delete to the server,
the server responds with a 302.
But if you do a 302, a 302 redirect
carries forward the verb and so
that would cause you to call delete
on slash, so that wouldn't be good.
What you would wanna do is a 303 view
a 303, it won't care for the verb instead,
it'll do a get on the slash or
on whatever kind of 303 next thing.
Like we said earlier,
if we push the URL and do the Delete,
we'll get the indicator to show up.
We'll disable the button when the risk
response happens and it does a 303,
our URL will be updated to make
sure it's now at slash, and
we will have that context deleted and
everything we've done.
And so another thing I'd like to kinda
de confuse if you're doing inline or
not inline, you can just literally
add a redirect tool, right?
You can kinda go back to the old days
where you don't have to come up with
super generalized solutions for
every single problem,
just come up with the solution for
the problem at hand.
This would make the whole
thing just simply work, right?
So I like that you can make it a link and
do a boost.
There's all sorts of different
kinds of tricks you can do.
I actually really like that approach.
I feel like it's very engineering, right?
I know how to set up a problem to
do that for any type of content and
it's very simple to follow the logical
steps throughout your application.
All right, next problem,
you have too many contacts, right?
This would definitely happen to the point
where you couldn't just send down a page
full of contacts.
It would absolutely just
destroy your experience.
So there are nonstandard events in HTMX
trigger, which include load, reveal, and
intercept.
If you're doing some CSS fancy magic,
you Intersect allows for
a scroll y scroll x kind of offset.
Whereas reveal simply has if an element
is visible onto the viewport,
I want you to trigger an action.
And so it's kind of a cool way
to be able to load content more.
Kinda when you're on Twitter and
you're scrolling down.
I want to add in a final element that's
like, hey, when I show up, do something.
You could also be pretty
clever about that.
You could put that element maybe further
into the list and then do two updates.
A no content update to delete that thing,
plus an out of bands update to
add more things to the list so
that way you can trigger a request
earlier before the content all runs out.
A lot of little strategies here, but
I made a little program called blocks,
remember blocks?
We talked about it about blocks earlier
at the very beginning of the course.
I can kinda show you what that looks like.
Here we go, very, very simple.
We have our template right here
that does infinite scrolling.
And all blocks does is it will simply make
a block with the ID that was added to
the block.
And if there are more to reveal,
then I'll do a trigger on reveal,
swap the outer HTML of this div element.
So meaning what comes back from the
server, this div will be replaced with,
and I already have effectively
the cursor right here.
Blocks start equals
the next place to start at.
So I can generate the URL I need to
continue to go through my list of
whatever it is.
And that would look something
like command that's Cmake,
don't [SOUND] Let's not do any of that.
That's just the worst
stuff in the universe.
All right, so if we did that,
we go to, did I do it at 68?
What did I do it at?
Yeah, I did it at 69 slash blocks.
So if we look at the network, we'll see
that it made two requests right off
the rip because when this page landed,
10 was already in the viewport.
That little thing was revealed so
then it added the next 10 and
then that thing was still in the view
port and made that third request.
And as I scroll down,
it's gonna just start making requests,
making it feel like there's
more content coming.
You could do an HTMX Indicator.
You could have little
spinner at the bottom so
that way you know more content's coming.
There's all sorts of
interactions you can do.
And this is a relatively unfun
thing to program, generally,
which has been made relatively simple,
especially for a tool.
Like, how many times have you used a
stupid build tool where you just wanna see
more things and, like,
that process just totally sucks.
It just doesn't have to suck, right?
It just, it really doesn't have to suck.
You can make pretty simple servers to
manage to do all this stuff, very simple.
So contacts are the exact same thing,
add a reveal more at the end, scroll down,
what about filtering?
Well, filtering is the same
problem as the previous one.
Besides for the very simple case where you
have ten items, you don't need to make
a server request, and I'm sure you could
add some fancy JavaScript for this.
But in general, you have many items.
And so when you start filtering,
you have to make a server request.
Because you have to filter your 10,000
items down to some small match that you
can display on the screen, and then also
add an active reveal if you need to.
And so this is called active search.
And here's a very simple
example of an active search.
You have a form that you can
submit to search for contacts.
But while you're typing, the input
field is actually making requests and
updating the element below.
So id search, you can fill it in with
the previous value if you want to.
So in case you already have a search
going and the page refreshes,
you maintain all the same stuff.
So you have a trigger on key up delay for
200 milliseconds.
In other words throttling and
if the contents been changed,
make a request to the server.
You add some cached headers,
add some sort of list to it,
add some sort of key values.
So if the contacts haven't changed,
you can just use cached values from
within your actual like browser cache,
all sorts of good ways to do stuff here.
And it's just a very simple
method to do active searching.
And so again,
kind of engineering in a way.
So I want you to feel that.
Its whole goal is to return to more of
what feels like a computer science-y or
a very engineering way
to approach problems.
It doesn't feel like how
do you want to solve this?
What ways can you envision?
Do you want to write your own?
Do we wanna use redux?
What can we explore?
It's like no, there's actually a really
defined way to do these things that's
existed for a long time.
Let's just don't to do step-by-step
procedures for everything because anyone
can memorize these 10 patterns and
be pretty successful at building tools.
You're probably asking yourself how
many URLs can be represented or
how many states can be represented
by URLs and HTTP codes.
Well, quite a bit.
You can do quite a bit
of things with HTMX.
Here's some obvious examples that
you would never use HTMX for, maps,
it wouldn't make any sense.
The Chrome could totally be HTML,
but maps itself.
You obviously need that spreadsheet.
Why would you ever do Compute Side
stuff instead of client side stuff?
Conway's game of life,
the actual game can be played, but
if you wish to have something that can
save states of Conway's game of life and
all that, you could use HTML to actually.
Trigger all those events and
do all the saving and loading and
giving you a list of different
games you've played before.
I actually built this once just to kind of
test it out to see if I can do a really
nice rich client-side experience where you
have a game where you can select different
items and draw your own Conway's life and
then play Conway's life.